README.md, before:

***THIS IS AN UNOFFICIAL BUILD SCRIPT!***

If you run into an issue with this build script, make an issue here. Don't bug Anthropic about it - they already have enough on their plates.

# Claude Desktop for Linux

This project was inspired by [k3d3's claude-desktop-linux-flake](https://github.com/k3d3/claude-desktop-linux-flake) and their [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/ClaudeAI/comments/1hgsmpq/i_successfully_ran_claude_desktop_natively_on/) about running Claude Desktop natively on Linux. Their work provided valuable insights into the application's structure and the native bindings implementation.

And now by me, via [Aaddrick's claude-desktop-debian](https://github.com/aaddrick/claude-desktop-debian), modified to work for Fedora 41.

Supports MCP!
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/93080028-6f71-48bd-8e59-5149d148cd45)

Supports the Ctrl+Alt+Space popup!
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1deb4604-4c06-4e4b-b63f-7f6ef9ef28c1)

Supports the Tray menu! (Screenshot of running on KDE)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ba209824-8afb-437c-a944-b53fd9ecd559)

# Installation Options

## 1. Fedora Package (New!)

For Debian-based distributions (Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, MX Linux, etc.), you can build and install Claude Desktop using the provided build script:

```bash
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/bsneed/claude-desktop-fedora.git
cd claude-desktop-fedora

# Build the package
sudo ./build-fedora.sh
sudo dnf install build/electron-app/x86_64/claude-desktop_0.7.7-1.fc41.x86_64.rpm

# The script will automatically:
# - Check for and install required dependencies
# - Download and extract resources from the Windows version
# - Create a proper Fedora package
# - Guide you through installation
```

Requirements:
- Fedora 41 Linux distribution
- Node.js >= 12.0.0 and npm
- Root/sudo access for dependency installation

## 2. Debian Package (New!)

For Debian users, please refer to [Aaddrick's claude-desktop-debian](https://github.com/aaddrick/claude-desktop-debian) repository.  Their implementation is specifically designed for Debian and provides the original build script that inspired THIS project.

## 3. NixOS Implementation

For NixOS users, please refer to [k3d3's claude-desktop-linux-flake](https://github.com/k3d3/claude-desktop-linux-flake) repository. Their implementation is specifically designed for NixOS and provides the original Nix flake that inspired this project.

# How it works

Claude Desktop is an Electron application packaged as a Windows executable. Our build script performs several key operations to make it work on Linux:

1. Downloads and extracts the Windows installer
2. Unpacks the app.asar archive containing the application code
3. Replaces the Windows-specific native module with a Linux-compatible implementation
4. Repackages everything into a proper Debian package

The process works because Claude Desktop is largely cross-platform, with only one platform-specific component that needs replacement.

## The Native Module Challenge

The only platform-specific component is a native Node.js module called `claude-native-bindings`. This module provides system-level functionality like:

- Keyboard input handling
- Window management
- System tray integration
- Monitor information

Our build script replaces this Windows-specific module with a Linux-compatible implementation that:

1. Provides the same API surface to maintain compatibility
2. Implements keyboard handling using the correct key codes from the reference implementation
3. Stubs out unnecessary Windows-specific functionality
4. Maintains critical features like the Ctrl+Alt+Space popup and system tray

The replacement module is carefully designed to match the original API while providing Linux-native functionality where needed. This approach allows the rest of the application to run unmodified, believing it's still running on Windows.

## Build Process Details

> Note: The build script was generated by Claude (Anthropic) to help create a Linux-compatible version of Claude Desktop.

The build script (`build-deb.sh`) handles the entire process:

1. Checks for a Debian-based system and required dependencies
2. Downloads the official Windows installer
3. Extracts the application resources
4. Processes icons for Linux desktop integration
5. Unpacks and modifies the app.asar:
   - Replaces the native module with our Linux version
   - Updates keyboard key mappings
   - Preserves all other functionality
6. Creates a proper Debian package with:
   - Desktop entry for application menus
   - System-wide icon integration
   - Proper dependency management
   - Post-install configuration

## Updating the Build Script

When a new version of Claude Desktop is released, simply update the `CLAUDE_DOWNLOAD_URL` constant at the top of `build-deb.sh` to point to the new installer. The script will handle everything else automatically.

# License

The build scripts in this repository, are dual-licensed under the terms of the MIT license and the Apache License (Version 2.0).

See [LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) and [LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) for details.

The Claude Desktop application, not included in this repository, is likely covered by [Anthropic's Consumer Terms](https://www.anthropic.com/legal/consumer-terms).

## Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.
# claude-desktop-fedora

Commit message:

readme update for this fork

README.md, after:

***THIS IS AN UNOFFICIAL BUILD SCRIPT!***

If you run into an issue with this build script, make an issue here. Don't bug Anthropic about it - they already have enough on their plates.

# Claude Desktop for Linux, but Apple Silicon! (and maybe ARM in general?)
***This variant of [bsneed's Fedora script](https://github.com/bsneed/claude-desktop-fedora) just modifies some of the build script stuff to point towards the arm64 Claude Desktop .exe and I will not be doing active maintenance on this, use at your own peril and/or boredom.***

The default version of Electron installed for this appears to be screwy, and the version with the best stability for me as of 2025-02-13 was v32.0.0, but your mileage may vary.

___

This project was inspired by [k3d3's claude-desktop-linux-flake](https://github.com/k3d3/claude-desktop-linux-flake) and their [Reddit post](https://www.reddit.com/r/ClaudeAI/comments/1hgsmpq/i_successfully_ran_claude_desktop_natively_on/) about running Claude Desktop natively on Linux. Their work provided valuable insights into the application's structure and the native bindings implementation.

And now by me, via [Aaddrick's claude-desktop-debian](https://github.com/aaddrick/claude-desktop-debian), modified to work for Fedora 41.

Supports MCP!
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/93080028-6f71-48bd-8e59-5149d148cd45)

Supports the Ctrl+Alt+Space popup!
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1deb4604-4c06-4e4b-b63f-7f6ef9ef28c1)

Supports the Tray menu! (Screenshot of running on KDE)
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ba209824-8afb-437c-a944-b53fd9ecd559)

# Installation Options

## 1. Fedora Package (New!)

For Debian-based distributions (Debian, Ubuntu, Linux Mint, MX Linux, etc.), you can build and install Claude Desktop using the provided build script:

```bash
# Clone this repository
git clone https://github.com/bsneed/claude-desktop-fedora.git
cd claude-desktop-fedora

# Build the package
sudo ./build-fedora.sh
sudo dnf install build/electron-app/x86_64/claude-desktop_0.7.7-1.fc41.x86_64.rpm

# The script will automatically:
# - Check for and install required dependencies
# - Download and extract resources from the Windows version
# - Create a proper Fedora package
# - Guide you through installation
```

Requirements:
- Fedora 41 Linux distribution
- Node.js >= 12.0.0 and npm
- Root/sudo access for dependency installation

## 2. Debian Package (New!)

For Debian users, please refer to [Aaddrick's claude-desktop-debian](https://github.com/aaddrick/claude-desktop-debian) repository.  Their implementation is specifically designed for Debian and provides the original build script that inspired THIS project.

## 3. NixOS Implementation

For NixOS users, please refer to [k3d3's claude-desktop-linux-flake](https://github.com/k3d3/claude-desktop-linux-flake) repository. Their implementation is specifically designed for NixOS and provides the original Nix flake that inspired this project.

# How it works

Claude Desktop is an Electron application packaged as a Windows executable. Our build script performs several key operations to make it work on Linux:

1. Downloads and extracts the Windows installer
2. Unpacks the app.asar archive containing the application code
3. Replaces the Windows-specific native module with a Linux-compatible implementation
4. Repackages everything into a proper Debian package

The process works because Claude Desktop is largely cross-platform, with only one platform-specific component that needs replacement.

## The Native Module Challenge

The only platform-specific component is a native Node.js module called `claude-native-bindings`. This module provides system-level functionality like:

- Keyboard input handling
- Window management
- System tray integration
- Monitor information

Our build script replaces this Windows-specific module with a Linux-compatible implementation that:

1. Provides the same API surface to maintain compatibility
2. Implements keyboard handling using the correct key codes from the reference implementation
3. Stubs out unnecessary Windows-specific functionality
4. Maintains critical features like the Ctrl+Alt+Space popup and system tray

The replacement module is carefully designed to match the original API while providing Linux-native functionality where needed. This approach allows the rest of the application to run unmodified, believing it's still running on Windows.

## Build Process Details

> Note: The build script was generated by Claude (Anthropic) to help create a Linux-compatible version of Claude Desktop.

The build script (`build-deb.sh`) handles the entire process:

1. Checks for a Debian-based system and required dependencies
2. Downloads the official Windows installer
3. Extracts the application resources
4. Processes icons for Linux desktop integration
5. Unpacks and modifies the app.asar:
   - Replaces the native module with our Linux version
   - Updates keyboard key mappings
   - Preserves all other functionality
6. Creates a proper Debian package with:
   - Desktop entry for application menus
   - System-wide icon integration
   - Proper dependency management
   - Post-install configuration

## Updating the Build Script

When a new version of Claude Desktop is released, simply update the `CLAUDE_DOWNLOAD_URL` constant at the top of `build-deb.sh` to point to the new installer. The script will handle everything else automatically.

# License

The build scripts in this repository, are dual-licensed under the terms of the MIT license and the Apache License (Version 2.0).

See [LICENSE-MIT](LICENSE-MIT) and [LICENSE-APACHE](LICENSE-APACHE) for details.

The Claude Desktop application, not included in this repository, is likely covered by [Anthropic's Consumer Terms](https://www.anthropic.com/legal/consumer-terms).

## Contribution

Unless you explicitly state otherwise, any contribution intentionally submitted
for inclusion in the work by you, as defined in the Apache-2.0 license, shall be dual licensed as above, without any
additional terms or conditions.
# claude-desktop-fedora
